The Project Gutenberg EBook of Count The Cost, by Jonathan Steadfast

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Count The Cost
       An Address To The People Of Connecticut,On Sundry Political
       Subjects, And Particularly On The Proposition For A New
       Constitution.

Author: Jonathan Steadfast

Release Date: January 23, 2004 [EBook #10805]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COUNT THE COST ***




Produced by John Orcutt




COUNT THE COST.

AN
ADDRESS
TO THE
PEOPLE of CONNECTICUT,
ON
SUNDRY POLITICAL SUBJECTS,

AND

PARTICULARLY ON THE PROPOSITION FOR A NEW CONSTITUTION.

BY JONATHAN STEADFAST


1804



"However combinations or associations of the above description may now
and then answer popular ends, they are likely in the course of time and
things to become potent engines, by which cunning ambitions and
unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert the power of the people, and
to usurp to themselves, the reins of government, destroying afterwards
the very engines which have lifted them to unjust dominion."

                                   WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL ADDRESS.





AN ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE OF CONNECTICUT.

"FOR which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and
counteth the cost?"


An interesting question is here asked by the direction of infinite
wisdom. This question contains the following useful and important
instruction: That no man or body of men should attempt the
accomplishment of any great object without duly estimating the evils and
benefits probably resulting from it. Such a rule of life and adopted and
adhered to would have prevented many schemes and projects which have
cost much, and which have been productive of nothing but the disgrace to
their authors and misery to the human race--it would induce men to obey
the dictates of experience rather than the dreams of enthusiasm, and
would drive from the world a species of wisdom which is indeed folly.

An attempt is now making in this State to change the vital principles of
our government, to remove from office all our present rulers, and to
introduce a new order of things. To these innovations the people are
invited, allured and exhorted.--To effect these objects no pains are
spared--no exertions are omitted.

An important question here arises, viz. Would the accomplishment of the
object be worth the cost?--An individual who neither holds an office
nor seeks one--who can have nothing in view but the maintenance of that
order of things which shall most effectually promote public and private
happiness, and who has the same interest in the welfare of society as
the great body of his fellow citizens, requests the dispassionate
attention of the reader, while he considers this important subject. He
will use no weapon but truth and truth will be regarded by all except
those who love darkness rather than light.

To exhibit a correct view of the subject, it will be proper, first, to
enquire into the present condition of Connecticut, and secondly, to
examine the various plans or projects proposed for our adoption, and
estimate the probably cost attending them. We can then in the third
place form a just opinion of the propriety of the proposed changes.

The condition of Connecticut first claims our attention.

That our climate, soil and situation are such as to insure as much
health, riches and prosperity as any people can rationally wish, seems
not to be doubted. Our natural advantages do not indeed promise such an
accumulation of wealth as might satisfy that avarice which like the
horse leach is constantly crying give--give--they are such however as
will in ordinary cases, ensure to industry an ample reward and this
should satisfy a virtuous mind.

The diffusion of knowledge is greater than in any other part of the
globe of equal dimensions. Such are the excellent provisions of our
laws, and the virtuous habits of our citizens, that schools of
instruction in all useful knowledge are to be found in every place where
they are needed. There is no village in this State which will not attest
to this fact. In various places also flourishing academies are
supported, in which the higher branches of science are taught, and our
College is at once our ornament and our pride. Religious instruction is
also brought almost to every man's door, so that none can justly
complain that they are denied the means of growing wiser and better. By
the liberality of the benevolent private libraries are every where found
which, with the other sources of information, evince the superiority of
our condition to that of any other people, in the means of gaining
valuable knowledge. To those, who with the writer, believe that
ignorance is the parent of vice, and that the civilized is preferable to
the savage state, our situation, in the above particulars, demands the
gratitude of every heart.

Our constitution and government are perfectly free, and our laws are
mild, equitable and just. To the truth of this position there is the
most ample and unequivocal proof.

1. Those who seek to revolutionize the State declare this to be the
nature of our government with few exceptions.--Such testimony cannot be
doubted--it is the testimony of a man against himself. Ask your
neighbour to point you to the evils under which he labours--ask him to
name the man who is oppressed except by his vices or his follies, and if
he be honest, he will tell you that there is no such man--if he be
dishonest, his silence will be proof in point.

2. Strangers who reside here a sufficient time to learn our laws,
universally concur in their declarations on this subject. They will ask,
with surprize, why the people of Connecticut should complain? They see
every man indulged in worshiping  God as he pleases, and they see many
indulged in neglecting his worship entirely--They see men every where
enjoying the liberty of doing what is right--and such liberty they
rightly decide is the perfection of freedom.

3. The experience of a century and a half, affords irresistible proof on
this subject. During this long period convulsions have shaken many parts
of the earth, and there has been a mighty waste of human happiness.
Empires and Kingdoms have been prostrated, and the sword hath been
devouring without cessation. This state too hath been threatened--
clouds have gathered and portended a dreadful desolation, but we have
been defended, protected and saved. No essential changes in our
government have ever taken place--formed by men who knew the important
difference between liberty and licentiousness, it has been our shield--
our strong tower--our secure fortress.--To the calls of our country we
have ever been obedient--No state hath more cheerfully met danger--no
state hath more readily or effectually resisted foreign aggression.
Washington while living was a witness to this fact, and tho' dead he yet
speaketh. While plots, insurrections and rebellions have distressed many
states and nations, Connecticut hath enjoyed an internal peace and
tranquility, which forcibly demonstrates the wisdom and equity of her
Government.--Such a Government, administered by men of virtue and
talents, has produced the most benign effects, and our prosperity is
calculated to excite the warmest expressions of gratitude rather than
the murmurs of disaffection.

4. Our Treasury exhibits the truth of these remarks. It is clear from the
statement in the Appendix, to which every reader will advert with
pleasure, that the people of Connecticut annually receive thirty seven
thousand four hundred and fifty-five dollars and seventy six cents more
from the Treasury than they pay into it by taxes and duties.--At the
close of the late war such had been our exertions, we were encumbered
with a debt of nearly two millions of dollars. Now that debt is paid and
we have nearly that sum in advance. Where is the state which can justly
boast of greater prosperity?

Notwithstanding this enviable situation a clamour is excited, the
people are agitated, and discord, with its train of evils, is
prevailing. Some of our citizens, in the height of political prosperity,
are seeking to destroy an order of things which has prevailed an hundred
and fifty years, and throw themselves into the arms of projectors and
reformers. Is there nothing unaccountable in such conduct? Is there
nothing calculated to excite indignation? My fellow citizens, shall any
considerable portion of the people of Connecticut subject themselves to
the reproach which rested on an ancient people? "The ox knoweth his
owner and the ass his master's crib, but my people do not know, Israel
doth not consider."

Secondly. Let us examine some of the plans and projects proposed for our
adoption and estimate the probably cost attending them.