Project Gutenberg's The Rover Boys at College, by Edward Stratemeyer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Rover Boys at College

Author: Edward Stratemeyer

Release Date: November 27, 2003 [EBook #10323]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ROVER BOYS AT COLLEGE ***




Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Josephine Paolucci
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.





THE ROVER BOYS AT COLLEGE

OR

THE RIGHT ROAD AND THE WRONG

BY

ARTHUR M. WINFIELD

Author of "The Rover Boys at School," "The Rover Boys on the Ocean,"
"The Rover Boys on Treasure Isle," Etc.

MCMX




BY THE SAME AUTHOR

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROVER BOYS AT SCHOOL, THE ROVER BOYS ON THE OCEAN, THE ROVER BOYS ON
LAND AND SEA, THE ROVER BOYS IN CAMP, THE ROVER BOYS ON THE PLAINS, THE
ROVER BOYS IN SOUTHERN WATERS, THE ROVER BOYS ON TREASURE ISLE.




CONTENTS


  I      ON THE TRAIN
  II     AT THE SANDERSON HOUSE
  III    LIKE KNIGHTS OF OLD
  IV     WHAT HAPPENED AT THE CAMPUS FENCE
  V      GETTING ACQUAINTED
  VI     A HAZING, AND WHAT FOLLOWED
  VII    THE ARRIVAL OF SONGBIRD
  VIII   THE COLORS CONTEST
  IX     TOM IN TROUBLE
  X      SONGBIRD MAKES A DISCOVERY
  XI     HOW TOM ESCAPED PUNISHMENT
  XII    IN WHICH THE GIRLS ARRIVE
  XIII   THE ROWING RACE
  XIV    WILLIAM PHILANDER TUBES
  XV     AN AUTOMOBILING ADVENTURE
  XVI    SOMETHING ABOUT A CANE
  XVII   A MISUNDERSTANDING
  XVIII  THE GREAT FOOTBALL GAME
  XIX    MORE COMPLICATIONS
  XX     DAYS OF WAITING
  XXI    HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS
  XXII   WORD AT LAST
  XXIII  THE SPRINGTIME OF LIFE
  XXIV   AT THE HAUNTED HOUSE
  XXV    IN THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY
  XXVI   THE EVIDENCE AGAINST THEM
  XXVII  IN DISGRACE
  XXVIII DARK DAYS
  XXIX   WHAT THE GIRLS DISCOVERED
  XXX    A BEGINNING AND AN ENDING




THE ROVER BOYS AT COLLEGE




CHAPTER I

ON THE TRAIN


"We're making time now, Tom."

"Making time?" repeated Tom Rover as he gazed out of the car window at
the telegraph poles flashing past. "I should say we were, Sam! Why, we
must be running sixty miles an hour!"

"If we are not we are making pretty close to it," came from a third
boy of the party in the parlor car. "I think the engineer is trying to
make up some of the time we lost at the last stop."

"That must be it, Dick," said Sam Rover. "Gracious, how we are
rocking!" he added as the train rushed around a sharp curve and nearly
threw him from his chair.

"I hope we get to Ashton on time," remarked Tom Rover. "I want to take
a look around the grounds before it gets dark."

"That's Tom, wanting to see it all before he sleeps!" cried Sam Rover
with a grin. "You look out, Tom, that you don't get into disgrace the
first thing, as you did when we went to Putnam Hall Don't you remember
that giant firecracker, and how Josiah Crabtree locked you up in a
cell for setting it off?"

"Ugh! Will I ever forget it!" groaned Tom, making a wry face. "But
I got the best of old Crabtree, didn't I?" he continued, his face
brightening.

"Wonder if we'll make as many friends at college as we did at Putnam
Hall," remarked Dick Rover. "Those were jolly times and no mistake!
Think of the feasts, and the hazings, and the baseball and football,
and the rackets with the Pornell students, and all that!"

"Speaking of hazing, I heard that some of the hazing at the college
we're bound for is fierce," came from Sam Rover.

"Well, we'll have to stand for what comes, Sam," answered his big
brother. "No crying quit' here."

"Right you are, Dick," said Tom, "At the same time if--Great Caesar's
ghost, what's up now!"

As Tom uttered the last words a shrill whistle from the locomotive
pierced the air. Then came the sudden gripping of the air brakes on
the car wheels, and the express came to a stop with a shock that
pitched all the passengers from their seats. Tom and Sam went
sprawling in a heap in the aisle and Dick came down on top of them.

"Hi, get off of me!" spluttered Sam, who was underneath.

"What's the matter? Have we run into another train?" asked Tom as he
pushed Dick to one side and arose.

"I don't know," answered the older brother. "Something is wrong,
that's certain."

"Are you hurt, Sam?" asked Tom as he helped the youngest Rover to his
feet.

"No--not much," was the panting reply. "Say, we stopped in a hurry all
right, didn't we?"

With the shock had come loud cries from the other people in the car,
and it was found that one young lady had fainted. Everybody wanted to
know what was the matter, but nobody could answer the question. The
colored porter ran to the platform and opened the vestibule door. Tom
followed the man and so did Sam and Dick.

"Freight train ahead, off the track," announced Tom. "We ran into the
last car."

"Let us go up front and see how bad it is," returned Dick. "Maybe this
will tie us up here for hours."

"Oh, I hope not," cried Sam. "I want to get to the college just as
soon as possible. I'm dying to know what it's like."

"We can be thankful we were not hurt, Sam," said his older brother.
"If our engineer hadn't stopped the train as he did we might have had
a fearful smashup."

"I know it," answered Sam soberly, and then the boys walked forward to
learn the full extent of the damage done and what prospects there were
of continuing their journey.

To my old readers the lads just mentioned will need no special
introduction, but for the benefit of those who have not read the
previous volumes in this "Rover Boys Series" let me state that the
brothers were three in number, Dick being the oldest, fun-loving Tom
coming next and Sam the youngest. They were the sons of one Anderson
Rover, a rich widower, and when at home lived with their father and an
aunt and an uncle on a beautiful farm called Valley Brook.

From the farm, and while their father was in Africa, the boys had been
sent by their Uncle Randolph to school, as related in the first book
of the series, called "The Rover Boys at School." At this place,
called Putnam Hall, they made many friends and also a few enemies and
had "the time of their lives," as Tom often expressed it.

A term at school had been followed by a short trip on the ocean, and
then the boys, in company with their uncle, went to the jungles of
Africa to rescue Mr. Rover, who was a captive of a savage tribe of
natives. After that came trips out West, and to the Great Lakes, and
to the mountains, and, returning to school, the lads went into camp
with the other cadets. Then they took another long trip on land and
sea and led a Crusoe-like life on an island of the Pacific Ocean.

"I think we'd better settle down now," said Dick on returning home
from being cast away, but this was not to be. They took a house-boat
trip down the Ohio and the Mississippi rivers, had a number of
adventures on the plains and then found themselves in southern waters,
where they solved the mystery of a deserted steam yacht.

They returned to the farm and to Putnam Hall, and for a time matters
went along quietly. On account of attending to some business for his
father, Dick had fallen somewhat behind in his studies, and Tom and
Sam did their best to catch up to him, and, as a consequence, all
three of the youths graduated from Putnam Hall at the same time.

"And now for college!" Sam had said, and all were anxious to know
where their parent intended to send them next But instead of settling
this question Mr. Rover came forward with a proposition that was as
novel as it was inviting. This was nothing less than to visit a spot
in the West Indies, known as Treasure Isle, and made a hunt for a
large treasure secreted there during a rebellion in one of the Central
American countries.

"A treasure hunt! Just the thing!" Dick had said, and his brothers
agreed with him. The lads were filled with excitement over the
prospect, and for the time being all thoughts of going to college were
thrust aside.

From Mr. Rover it was learned that the treasure belonged to the estate
of a Mr. Stanhope, who had died some years before. Mr. Stanhope's
widow was well known to the Rover boys, and Dick thought that Dora
Stanhope, the daughter, was the finest girl in the whole world. There
was also another relative, a Mrs. Laning--the late Mr. Stanhope's
sister--who was to share in the estate, and she had two daughters,
Grace and Nellie, two young ladies who were especial favorites with
Sam and Tom.

"Oh, we've got to find that treasure," said Tom. "Think of what it
means to the Stanhopes and the Lanings."

"They'll be rich--and they deserve to be," answered his brother Sam.
It may be added here that the Rovers were wealthy, so they did not
begrudge the treasure to others.

A steam yacht was chartered and a party was made up, consisting of the
Rovers, several of the boys' school chums, Mrs. Stanhope and Dora and
Mrs. Laning and Grace and Nellie. The steam yacht carried a fine crew
and also an old tar called Bahama Bill, who knew the exact location of
the treasure.

Before sailing it was learned that some rivals were also after the
treasure. One of these was a sharper named Sid Merrick, who had on
several occasions tried to get the best of the Rovers and failed. With
Merrick was Tad Sobber, his nephew, a youth who at Putnam Hall had
been a bitter foe to Dick, Tom and Sam. Sobber had sent the Rovers a
box containing a live poisonous snake, but the snake got away and bit
another pupil. This lad knew all about the sending of the reptile and
he exposed Tad Sobber, and the latter, growing alarmed, ran away from
the school.

The search for the treasure proved a long one, and Sid Merrick and Tad
Sobber did all in their power to keep the wealth from falling into the
hands of the Rovers and their friends. But the Rovers won out in the
quest and sailed away with the treasure on board the steam yacht. The
vessel of their enemies followed them, but a hurricane came up and the
other ship was lost with nearly all on board.

"Well, that's the end of Sid Merrick and Tad Sobber," said Dick when
he heard this news. "If they are at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean
they can't bother us any more." But Dick was mistaken in his surmise.
It was true that Sid Merrick had been drowned, but Tad Sobber was
alive, having been rescued by a schooner bound for London, and he
was now on his way back to the United States, more bitter than ever
against the Rovers, and with a determination to do all in his power
to bring Dick, Tom and Sam to grief and gain possession of the money
which he and his uncle had claimed belonged to them instead of to the
Stanhope estate.

On arriving at Philadelphia from the West Indies the treasure was
deposited in a strong box of a local trust company. From it the
expenses of the trip were paid, and the sailors who had aided in the
search were suitably rewarded. Later on the balance of the treasure
was divided according to the terms of Mr. Stanhope's will. This placed
a large sum of money in the hands of Mrs. Stanhope, both for herself
and Dora, and also a goodly amount in the hands of Mrs. Laning for
herself and Grace and Nellie.

The Stanhopes had always been fairly well off, but not so the Lanings.
John Laning was a farmer, and this sudden change to riches bewildered
him.

"Why, mother," he said to his wife, "whatever will you and the gals do
with the money?"

"Several things, John," she answered. "In the first place, you are not
going to work so hard and in the next place the girls are going to
have a better education."

"Well, I'm not afraid of work," answered the farmer. "About
eddication, if they want it--well, it's their money and they can have
all the learnin' they want."

"Dora is going to a boarding school and Nellie and Grace want to go
with her," went on Mrs. Laning.

"Where is Dora going?"

"To a place called Hope Seminary. Her mother knows the lady who is the
principal."

"Well, if it's a good place, I reckon the gals can go too. But it will
be terrible lonesome here without 'em."

"I know, John, but we want the girls to be somebody, now they have
money, don't we?"

"Sure we do," answered Mr. Laning readily.

So it was arranged that the three girls should go to Hope Seminary,
located several miles from the town of Ashton, in one of the Central
States. In the meantime the Rover boys were speculating on what
college they were to attend. Yale was mentioned, and Harvard and
Princeton, and also several institutions located in the Middle West.

"Boys, wouldn't you like to go to Brill College?" asked their father
one day. "That's a fine institution--not quite so large as some but
just as good." And he smiled in a peculiar manner.

"Brill? Where is that?" asked Dick.

"It is near the town of Ashton, about two miles from Hope Seminary,
the school Dora Stanhope and the Laning girls are going to attend."
And Mr. Rover smiled again.

"Brill College for mine," said Sam promptly and in a manner that made
his brothers laugh.

"Sam wants to be near Grace," said Tom.

"Well, don't you want to be near Nellie?" retorted the youngest Rover.

"Of course I do. And I reckon Dick won't be angry at being where he
can occasionally see Dora," went on the fun-loving Rover with a sly
wink. "Of course it's nice enough to write letters and send boxes of
chocolates by mail, but it's a good deal better to take a stroll in
the moonlight and hold hands, eh, Dick?"

"Is that what you do?" asked Dick, but his face grew very red as he
spoke.

"Never in the wide, wide world!" cried Tom.

"I leave that for my sentimental brothers, big and little."

"Who is sentimental?" exclaimed Sam. "Maybe I don't remember you and
Nellie on the deck of the steam yacht that moonlight night--"

"Aw, cut it out!" muttered Tom. He turned to his father, who had been
called from the room for a moment. "If you think Brill College a good
one, dad, it will suit me."

"And it will suit me, too," added Sam.

"I mentioned Brill for two reasons," explained Mr. Rover. "The one was
because it is near Hope Seminary and the other is because I happen to
know the president, Dr. John Wallington, quite well; in fact, we
went to school together. He is a fine gentleman--as fine a fellow as
Captain Putnam--and I am sure his college must be a good one."

"If it's as good as dear old Putnam Hall, I shall be well content,"
answered Dick.

"Then you are satisfied to go there, Dick?"

"Yes, sir."

So it was settled and arrangements were at once made for the three
boys to go to Brill. Fortunately it was found that their diplomas
from Putnam Hall would admit them to the freshmen class without
examination. All of the boys wrote letters to the girls and received
answers in return.

The college was to open two weeks before the seminary, so that to
journey to Ashton together would be out of the question.

"Well, we'll see the girls later, anyway," said Dick. "I hope they
like it at Hope and we like it at Brill; then we'll have some splendid
times together."

"Right you are," answered Sam, and Tom said the same.

At last came the day for the boys to leave home. Trunks and dress-suit
cases were packed, and not only their father but also their Uncle
Randolph and their Aunt Martha went to the depot to see them off.

"Now be good and take care of yourselves," said Mr. Rover on parting.

"Learn all you can," added Uncle Randolph. "Remember that knowledge is
better than wealth."

"Oh, I'm going to cram my head full of learning this trip," answered
Tom with a grin.

"Take care of yourselves and don't get sick," was Aunt Martha's
warning. "If you do, get a doctor right away." And then she gave each
of the boys a warm, motherly kiss and a hug. She thought the lads the
very best in all this wide world.

The train came and the boys were off. After a two hours' ride they
had to change to the main line and got into the parlor car already
mentioned. Then they had dinner in the diner and went back to the
other car to read and to look at the scenery. Thus several hours
slipped by, when of a sudden came the jar and shock that told them
something out of the ordinary had happened.




CHAPTER II

AT THE SANDERSON HOUSE


When the Rover boys reached the head of the train they found an
excited crowd beginning to collect. The locomotive of the express had
cut into the last freight car a distance of several feet, smashing a
number of boxes and barrels and likewise the headlight of the engine.
Nobody had been hurt, for which everybody was thankful. But the
engineer of the express was very angry.

"Why didn't you send a man back with a flag or put a torpedo on the
track?" he demanded of the freight train conductor.

"Did send a man back," was the answer, "but he didn't go back far
enough--hadn't time. This happened only a few minutes ago."

"You can't expect me to stop in a hundred feet," growled the engineer.
As a matter of fact he had not stopped in many times that distance.

"Well, I did what I could," grumbled the freight conductor.

By making inquiries the Rover boys learned that the freight train had
jumped a frog at a switch and part of the cars were on one track and
part on another. Two trucks were broken, and nobody could tell how
long it would take to clear the track upon which the express stood.

"May be an hour, but more likely it will be six or eight," said one of
the brakemen to Tom. "This section of the road is the worst managed of
the lot."

"And how far is it to Ashton?" asked Dick.

"About twelve miles by the railroad."

"Then walking is out of the question," came from Sam. "I shouldn't
mind hoofing it if it was two or three."

"The railroad has to run around the hill yonder," went on the train
hand. "If you go up the tracks for a quarter of a mile you'll come to
a country road that will take you right into Ashton, and the distance
from there isn't more than seven or eight miles."

"Any houses on that road?" asked Tom.

"Of course--farmhouses all along."

"Then come on," went on Tom to his brothers. "We can hire a carriage
to take us to Ashton and to the college. Some farmer will be glad of
the chance to earn the money."

"Let us wait and see if the train moves first," answered Dick.

"She won't move just yet," answered the brakeman with a sickly grin.

The boys stood around for a quarter of an hour and then decided to
walk up to the country road that had been mentioned. Their trunks were
checked through, but they had their dress-suit cases with them.

"We'll have to carry these," said Sam dolefully.

"Let us see if we can't check them," returned his big brother. But
this was impossible, for the baggage car was locked and they could not
find the man who had charge of it.

"Oh, well, come on," said Tom. "The cases are not so heavy, and it is
a fine day for walking," and off he started and his brothers followed
him.

It was certainly a fine day, as Tom said. It was early September,
clear and cool, with a faint breeze blowing from the west. On the way
they passed an apple orchard, laden with fruit, and they stopped long
enough to get some.

"I declare this is better than sitting in that stuffy car," remarked
Sam as he munched on an apple. "I am glad to stretch my legs."

"If we don't have to stretch them too long," remarked Dick.

"Say, I wonder if we'll pass anywhere near Hope Seminary!" cried Tom,
"It may be on this road."

"What of it?" returned his younger brother. "The girls are not here
yet--won't be for two weeks."

"Oh, we might get a view of the place anyway, Sam."

"I want to see Brill first," came from Dick. "If that doesn't suit
us--" He ended with a sigh.

"Oh, it will suit, you can bet on it!" cried Sam. "Father wouldn't
send us there if he wasn't sure it would be O.K. He's as much
interested as we are."

Walking along the highway, which ran down to a little milk station
on the railroad, the three boys soon discovered a farmhouse nestling
between some trees and bushes. They threw their baggage on the grass
and walked up to the front door.

They had to knock several times before their summons was answered.
Then an old lady opened the door several inches and peeped out.

"What do you want?" she demanded in a cracked voice.

"Good afternoon," said Dick politely. "Can we hire somebody to drive
us to Ashton? We were on the train, but there has been a smash-up, and
we--"

"Land sakes alive! A smash-up, did you say?" cried the old lady.

"Yes, madam."

"Was my son Jimmie killed?"

"Nobody was killed or even hurt."

"Sure of that? My son Jimmie went to Crawford yesterday an' was coming
back this afternoon. Sure he wasn't on that train?"

"If he was he wasn't hurt," answered Dick. "Can we hire a carriage to
take us to Ashton?"

"How did it happen--that accident?"

"The express ran into the end of a freight train."

"Land sakes alive! The freight! Maybe it was the one we sent the cows
away on. Was there any cows killed, do you know?"

"I don't think so."

"Well, tell me the particulars, will you? I don't go out much an' so I
don't hear nuthin'. But an accident! Ain't it awful? But I always
said it was risky to ride on the railroad; I told Jimmie so a hundred
times. But he would go to Crawford an' now maybe he's a corpse. You
are sure you didn't see a tall, thin young man, with a wart on his
chin, that was cut up?"

"What do you mean, the wart or the young man?" asked Tom, who was
bound to have his fun.

"Why, the young man o' course; although I allow if he was cut up the
wart would be, too. Poor boy! I warned him a hundred--"

"Can we hire a carriage here or not?" demanded Dick. The talk was
growing a little tiresome to him.

"No, you can't!" snapped the old lady. "We never hire out our
carriage. If we did it would soon go to pieces."

"Is there anybody who can drive us to Brill College? We'll pay for the
service, of course."

"No. But you might get a carriage over to the Sanderson place."

"Where is that?" asked Sam.

"Up the road a piece," and the old lady motioned with her head as she
spoke. "But now, if my son Jimmie was in that accident--"

"Good day, madam," said Dick and walked away, and Sam and Tom did the
same. The old lady continued to call after them, but they paid no
attention.

"Poor Jimmie! If he isn't killed in a railroad accident, he'll be
talked to death some day," was Sam's comment.

"Don't you care. We know that Jimmie's got a wart, anyway," observed
Tom, and he said this so dryly his brothers had to laugh. "Always add
to your fund of knowledge when you can," he added, in imitation of his
Uncle Randolph.

"I hope we have better success at the next farmhouse," said Sam.
"I don't know that I want to walk all the way to Ashton with this
dress-suit case."

"Oh, we're bound to find some kind of a rig at one place or another,"
said Dick. "All the folks can't be like that old woman."

They walked along the road until they came in sight of a second
farmhouse, also set in among trees and bushes. A neat gravel path,
lined with rose bushes, ran from the gate to the front piazza.

"This looks nice," observed Sam. "Some folks of the better sort must
live here."

The three boys walked up to the front piazza and set down their
baggage. On the door casing was an electric push button.

"No old-fashioned knocker here," observed Dick as he gave the button a
push.

"Well, we are not wanting electric push buttons," said Tom. "An
electric runabout or a good two-seat carriage will fill our bill."

The boys waited for fully a minute and then, as nobody came to answer
their summons, Dick pushed the button again.

"I don't hear it," said Sam. "Perhaps it doesn't ring."

"Probably it rings in the back of the house," answered his big
brother.

Again the boys waited, and while they did so all heard talking at a
distance.

"Somebody in the kitchen, I guess," said Tom. "Maybe we had better go
around there. Some country folks don't use their front doors excepting
for funerals and when the minister comes."

Leaving their dress-suit cases on the piazza, the Rover boys walked
around the side of the farmhouse in the direction of the kitchen.
The building was a low and rambling one and they had to pass a
sitting-room. Here they found a window wide open to let in the fresh
air and sunshine.

"Now, you must go, really you must!" they heard in a girl's voice. "I
haven't done a thing this afternoon, and what will papa say when he
gets back?"

"Oh, that's all right, Minnie," was the answer in masculine tones.
"You like us to be here, you know you do. And, remember, we haven't
seen you in a long time."

"Yes, I know, Mr. Flockley, but--"

"Oh, don't call me Mr. Flockley. Call me Dudd."

"Yes, and please don't call me Mr. Koswell," broke in another
masculine voice. "Jerry is good enough for me every time."

"But you must go now, you really must!" said the girl.

"We'll go if you'll say good-by in the right kind of a way, eh, Dudd?"
said the person called Jerry Koswell.

"Yes, Minnie, but we won't go until you do that," answered the young
man named Dudd Flockley.

"Wha--what do you mean?" faltered the girl. And now, looking through
the sitting-room window and through a doorway leading to the kitchen,
the Rover boys saw a pretty damsel of sixteen standing by a pantry
door, facing two dudish young men of eighteen or twenty. The young men
wore checkered suits and sported heavy watch fobs and diamond rings
and scarf-pins.

"Why, you'll give us each a nice kiss, won't you?" said Dudd Flockley
with a smile that was meant to be alluring.

"Of course Minnie will give us a kiss," said Jerry Koswell. "Next
Saturday I'm coming over to give you a carriage ride."

"I don't wish any carriage ride," answered the girl coldly. Her face
had gone white at the mention of kisses.

"Well, let's have the kisses anyway!" cried Dudd Flockley, and
stepping forward, he caught the girl by one hand, while Jerry Koswell
grasped her by the other.

"Oh, please let me go!" cried the girl. "Please do! Oh, Mr. Flockley!
Mr. Koswell, don't--don't--please!"

"Now be nice about it," growled Dudd Flockley.

"It won't hurt you a bit," added Jerry Koswell.

"I want you to let me go!" cried the girl.

"I will as soon as--" began Dudd Flockley, and then he gave a sudden
roar of pain as he found himself caught by the ear. Then a hand caught
him by the arm and he was whirled around and sent into a corner with a
crash. At the same time Jerry Koswell was tackled and sent down in a
heap in another corner. The girl, thus suddenly released, stared at
the newcomers in astonishment and then sank down on a chair, too much
overcome to move or speak.




CHAPTER III

LIKE KNIGHTS OF OLD


The Rover boys had acted on the impulse of the moment. They had seen
that the girl wanted the two dudish young men to leave her alone, and
stepping into the kitchen, Dick had tackled Dudd Flockley while Tom
and Sam had given their attention to Jerry Koswell.

"You cowards!" cried Dick, confronting Flockley. "Why can't you leave
a young lady alone when she tells you to?"

"They ought to be kicked out of the house," added Tom.

"You--you--" spluttered Dudd Flockley. He did not know what to say. He
gathered himself up hastily and Jerry Koswell followed. "Who are you?"
he demanded, facing Dick with clenched fists.

"Never mind who I am," was the reply of the oldest Rover. "Aren't you
ashamed of yourself?"

"This is none of your affair," came from Koswell.

"Well, we made it our affair," answered Tom. He turned to the girl "I
hope we did right," he added hastily.

"Why--er--yes, I think so," faltered the girl. She was still very
white and trembling. "But--but I hope you didn't hurt them."

"See here, Minnie, are you going to stand for this?" growled Dudd
Flockley. "It ain't fair! We're old friends, and--"

"You had no right to touch me, Mr. Flockley," answered the girl. "I
told you to let me go. I--I thought you were a--a--gentleman." And now
the tears began to show in Minnie Sanderson's eyes.

"I am a gentleman."

"You didn't act like one."

"Oh, come, don't get prudish, Minnie," put in Jerry Koswell. "We
didn't mean any harm. We--"

"I want you to leave this house!" said the girl, with a sudden show
of spirit. "You had no warrant to act as you did. It--it was--was
shameful! Leave at once!" And she stamped her small foot on the floor.
Her anger was beginning to show itself and her face lost its whiteness
and became crimson.

"We'll leave when we please," muttered Dudd Flockley.

"So we will," added Jerry Koswell.

On the instant Dick looked at his brothers, and the three advanced on
the two dudish-looking young men.

"You do as the young lady says," said Dick in a cold, hard voice. "I
don't know you, but you are not wanted here, and that is enough. Go!"
And he pointed to the door.

"See here--" blustered Flockley. But he got no further, for Dick
suddenly wheeled him around and gave him a shove that sent him through
the doorway and off the back porch.

"Now the other fellow," said the oldest Rover, but before Tom and
Sam could touch Jerry Koswell that individual ducked and ran after
Flockley. Then both young men stood at a safe distance.

"We'll fix you for this!" roared Flockley. "We don't know who you are,
but we'll find out, and--"

"Maybe you want a thrashing right now," came from Tom impulsively.
"I'm in fighting trim, if you want to know it." And he stepped out
of the house, with Sam at his heels. Dick followed. At this hostile
movement Flockley and Koswell turned and walked hurriedly out of the
garden and down the country road, a row of trees soon hiding them from
view.

"They are as mad as hornets," observed Sam. "If they belong anywhere
near Ashton we'll have to look out for them."

"Right you are," answered Tom. "But I am not particularly afraid."

Having watched the two young men out of sight, the three Rover boys
returned to the farmhouse. Minnie Sanderson had now recovered somewhat
and she blushed deeply as she faced them.

"Oh, wasn't it awful," she said. "I--I don't know what you think of
it. They had no right to touch me. I thought they were gentlemen. They
have called here several times, but they never acted that way before."

"Then we came in the nick of time," answered Dick. "Will you allow me
to introduce myself?" and he bowed. "My name is Dick Rover and this
is my brother Tom and this my brother Sam. You are Miss Sanderson, I
suppose."

"Yes, Minnie Sanderson."

"We are strangers here. We were on the train, but there was a little
accident and we were in a hurry to get to Ashton, so we got off and
walked up this road, thinking we could hire somebody to drive us to
Brill College."

"Oh, do you go to Brill?" And the girl's eyes opened widely.

"We don't go yet, but we are going."

"Then--then you'll meet Mr. Flockley and Mr. Koswell again."

"What, are they students there?" cried Tom.

"Yes. This is their second year, I believe. I know they were there
last spring, for they called here."

Sam gave a low whistle.

"We are making friends first clip, aren't we?" he murmured to his
brothers.

The boys related a few of the particulars of the accident and their
experience at the farmhouse near the railroad.

"Oh, that's old Mrs. Craven!" cried Minnie Sanderson. "She would talk
you out of your senses if you'd let her. But about a carriage, I don't
know. If papa was here--"

At that moment came the sound of carriage wheels on the gravel path
near the barn.

"There is papa now!" cried Minnie Sanderson. "You can talk to him. I
guess he'll take you to the college quick enough."

"How did those two young fellows get here?" asked Sam.

"I don't know. And please--that is--you won't say anything to my
father about that, will you? It would make him very angry, and I don't
know what he'd do."

"We'll not say a word if you wish it that way," answered Dick.

"I don't think they'll bother me again after the way you treated
them," added the girl.

She led them toward the barn and introduced her father, a fat and
jolly farmer of perhaps fifty. Mr. Sanderson had been off on a short
drive with one horse and he readily agreed to take them to Brill
College for two dollars.

"Just wait till I put in a fresh team," he said. "Then I'll get you
over to the college in less than an hour and a quarter."

While he was hooking up he explained that he had been to a nearby
village for a dry battery for the electric doorbell.

"We don't use the bell much, but I hate to have it out of order," he
explained.

"That's why it didn't ring," said Sam to his brothers.

The carriage was soon ready and the three dress-suit cases were piled
in the rear. Then the boys got in and Mr. Sanderson followed.

"Good-by!" called the boys to Minnie Sanderson.

"Good-by," she returned sweetly and waved her hand.

"Maybe we'll get down this way again some day," said Dick.

"If you do, stop in," returned the girl.

The farmer's team was a good one and they trotted out of the yard
and into the road in fine shape. Dick was beside the driver and his
brothers were in the rear. The carriage left a cloud of dust behind as
it bowled along over the dry country road.

"First year at Brill?" inquired Mr. Sanderson on the way.

"Yes," answered Dick.

"Fine place--no better in the world, so I've heard some folks say--and
they had been to some of the big colleges, too."

"Yes, we've heard it was all right," said Tom. "By the way, where is
Hope Seminary?"

"About two miles this side of Brill."

"Then we'll pass it, eh?" came from Sam.

"Well, not exactly. It's up a bit on a side road. But you can see the
buildings--very nice, too--although not so big as those up to Brill.
I'll point 'em out to you when we get there."

"Do you know any of the fellows at Brill?" questioned Tom, nudging Sam
in the ribs as he spoke.

"A few. Minnie met some of 'em at the baseball and football games, and
once in a while one of 'em stops at our house. But we are most too far
away to see much of 'em."

Presently the carriage passed through a small village which the boys
were told was called Rushville.

"I don't know why they call it that," said Mr. Sanderson with a
chuckle. "Ain't no rushes growing around here, and there ain't no rush
either; it's as dead as a salted mackerel," and he chuckled again.
"But there's one thing here worth knowing about," he added suddenly.

"What's that?" asked Dick.

"The Jamison place--it's haunted."

"Haunted!" cried Tom. "What, a house?"

"Yes, a big, old-fashioned house, set in a lot of trees. It ain't been
occupied for years, and the folks say it's haunted, and nobody goes
near it."

"We'll have to inspect it some day," said Sam promptly.

"What--you?" cried the fat farmer.

"Sure."

"Ain't you scared?"

"No," answered the youngest Rover. "I don't believe in ghosts."

"Well, they say it's worth a man's life to go in that house,
especially after dark."

"I think I'd risk it."

"So would I," added Tom.

"We'll pay the haunted house a visit some day when there is no session
at the college," said Dick "It will give us something to do."

"Hum!" mused the farmer. "Well, if you do it you've got backbone,
that's all I've got to say. The folks around here won't go near that
Jamison place nohow."

The road now became hilly, with many twists and turns, and the farmer
had to give his entire attention to his team. The carriage bounced up
and down and once Sam came close to being pitched out.

"Say, this is fierce!" he cried. "How much more of it?"

"Not more'n a quarter of a mile," answered Mr. Sanderson. "It is
kinder rough, ain't it? The roadmaster ought to have it fixed. Some of
the bumps is pretty bad."

There was one more small hill to cross, and then they came to a level
stretch. Here the horses made good time and the farmer "let them out"
in a fashion that pleased the boys very much.

"A fine team and no mistake," said Dick, and this pleased Mr.
Sanderson very much, for he was proud of but two things--his daughter
Minnie and his horses.

"There is Hope Seminary," said Mr. Sanderson presently and pointed to
a group of buildings set in among some large trees. "That's a good
school, I've been thinking of sending my daughter there, only it's a
pretty long drive, and I need her at home. You see," he explained,
"Minnie keeps house for me--has ever since my wife died, three years
ago."

The boys gazed at the distant seminary buildings with interest, and as
they did so Dick thought of Dora Stanhope and Tom and Sam remembered
the Lanings. All thought how jolly it would be to live so close
together during the college term.

"Now we've got only two miles more," said Mr. Sanderson as he set
his team on a trot again. "I'll land you at Brill inside of fifteen
minutes, even if the road ain't none of the best."

The country road ran directly into the town of Ashton, but there was
a short cut to the college and they turned into this. Soon the lads
caught sight of the pile of buildings in the distance. They were set
in a sort of park, with the road running in front and a river in the
rear. Out on the grounds and down by the stream the Rover boys saw a
number of students walking around and standing in groups talking.

With a crack of his whip Mr. Sanderson whirled from the road into the
grounds and drove up to the steps of the main building.

"This is the place where new students report," he said with a smile.
"I'll take your grips over to the dormitory."

"Thank you, Mr. Sanderson," said Dick. "And here are your two
dollars," and he handed the money over.

While Dick was paying the farmer Sam turned to the back of the
carriage to look at the dress-suit cases. He gave an exclamation.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom.

"Didn't you have a suit case, Tom?"

"Certainly."

"Well, it's gone."




CHAPTER IV

WHAT HAPPENED AT THE CAMPUS FENCE


"Gone?"

"Yes, gone Are you sure you put it in the carriage?"

"Positive," was Tom's answer. "I put it on top of yours and Dick's."

"Then it must have jounced out somewhere on the road."

"What's up?" asked Dick, catching a little of the talk.

"Tom's case is gone. He put it on top of ours, and I suppose coming
over that rough road jounced it out."

"One of the satchels gone, eh?" came from Mr. Sanderson. "Sure you put
it in?"

"Yes, I am positive."

"Too bad. Reckon I'd better go back at once and pick it up."

"I'll go with you," said Tom.

The matter was talked over for a minute and then Tom and the farmer
re